# TypeScript and JavaScript lib generator

This tool is used to generate the web-based `lib.dom.d.ts` file which is included with TypeScript releases, and as the `@types/web` package.

## Why is my fancy API still not available here?

A feature needs to be supported by more than two major browser engines to be included here, to make sure there is a good consensus among vendors: __Gecko__ (Firefox), __Blink__ (Chrome/Edge), and __WebKit__ (Safari).

If the condition is met but still is not available here, please [file an issue](hthttps://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript-DOM-lib-generator/issues/new).

## Build Instructions

To get things setup:

```sh
npm install
```

To generate the `.d.ts` files

```sh
npm run build
```

To test:

```sh
npm run test
```

To deploy:

```sh
npm run migrate
```

The script will look in for a clone of the TypeScript repo in "../TypeScript", or "./TypeScript" to move the generated files in.

## Contribution Guidelines

The files in the `baselines/` directory from the TypeScript repo are used as baselines.
For each pull request, we will run the script and compare the generated files with the baseline files.
In order to make the tests pass, please update the baseline as well in any pull requests.

### When the type is missing

It's possible that the automated algorithm decided that it's not well supported by browsers and thus removed it. Say we we want to add a new interface named `Foo`. Check if there is a document about that interface in [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/). If there is, see the browser compatibility section and check whether it's supported by two or more browsers. (Chrome, Firefox, and Safari are the relevant browsers. Supports from multiple Chromium-based browsers are counted as one support.)

If all the conditions are fulfilled, it could be that the type is incorrectly removed by `inputfiles/removedTypes.jsonc`. Try finding the relevant item there and run `npm run build && npm run baseline-accept`.

If conditions are not fulfilled but you think MDN is wrong, please file an issue at https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/issues/. The type will be automatically added in a few weeks when MDN fixes their data.

### When the type exists but is wrong

It's possible that the type is too specific or too general. First you need to check whether `inputfiles/overridingTypes.jsonc` or `inputfiles/addedTypes.jsonc` have a relevant item, which can be fixed if exists. If they don't, add one in `overridingTypes.jsonc`. Run `npm run build && npm run baseline-accept` to make sure the resulting changes are what you want.

If you are familiar with Web IDL, you may also want to check whether the upstream IDL itself can be made more specific. Doing so will reduce the need for manual overridings in this repository and thus can be more helpful.

# This repo

## Code Structure

- `src/build.ts`: handles the emitting of the `.d.ts` files.
- `src/test.ts`: verifies the output by comparing the `generated/` and `baseline/` contents.

## Input Files

- `mdn/apiDescriptions.json`: a JSON file generated by fetching API descriptions from [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API). **Do not edit this file**.
- `addedTypes.json`: types that should exist in either browser or webworker but are missing from the Edge spec. The format of the file mimics that of `browser.webidl.preprocessed.json`.
- `overridingTypes.json`: types that are defined in the spec file but has a better or more up-to-date definitions in the json files.
- `removedTypes.json`: types that are defined in the spec file but should be removed.
- `comments.json`: comment strings to be embedded in the generated .js files.
- `deprecatedMessage.json`: the reason why one type is deprecated. The reason why it is a separate file rather than merge in comment.json is mdn/apiDescriptions.json would also possibly be deprecated.
